Generator-style runner with application in BatchedCommand and AnnexRepo (#6244)
datalad/datalad: docs/source/design/threaded_runner.rst

.. -*- mode: rst -*-
.. vi: set ft=rst sts=4 ts=4 sw=4 et tw=79:

.. _chap_threaded_runner:

****************
Threaded runner
****************

> 

Reviewer: Wonderful! I was hoping for that to be in the diff, after having parser the associated code ;-)

 - type 2: process waiting thread (1 thread)

Transport Threads
.................

Besides the main thread, there might be up to three additional threads to handle data transfer to ``stdin``, and from ``stdout`` and ``stderr``. Each of those threads copies data between queues and file descriptors in a tight loop. The stdin-thread reads from an input-queue, the stdout- and stderr-threads write to an output queue. Each thread signals its exit to a set of signal queues, which might be identical to the output queues.

The ``stdin``-thread reads data from a queue and writes it to the ``stdin``-file descriptor of the sub-process. If it reads ``None`` from the queue, it will exit. The thread will also exit, if an exit is requested by calling ``thread.request_exit()``, or if an error occurs during writing. In all cases it will enqueue a ``None`` to all its signal-queues.

The ``stdout``- and ``stderr``-threads read from the respective file descriptor and enqueue data into their output queue, unless the data has zero length (which indicates a closed descriptor). On a zero-length read they exit and enqueue ``None`` into their signal queues.

> All queues are infinite. Nevertheless signaling is performed with a timeout of one 100 milli seconds in order to ensure that threads can exit.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
All queues are infinite. Nevertheless signaling is performed with a timeout of one 100 milliseconds in order to ensure that threads can exit.
```
